# Spring Project Survey

Here's a brainstorm of the projects that I have in flight. Maybe with some progress notes.

## LiPo Stamp

* Boards built
* Partially assembled test rig
* Need to finish test rig, new black pill breakouts can help
* Not blocked by anything
* Need to update project page

## Sensor Clock

* PoC running for \~2-3 weeks
* e-paper display PoC working, needs to be wired up to embedded-graphics
* Needs cleanups, probably i2c timeout handling, though watchdog is suitable.
* Needs wireless comms to track data remotely
* Maybe design more "final" PCB?
* Needs speakers wired and driver written
* Maybe wants some LEDs?
* Maybe switch to bigger e-paper display?
* Need to add project page

## USB Keypad

* Planning to "ship" first version for Laura
* Finally got keycaps!
* Needs "final" PCB(s) designed and built
* Needs further keyberon integration (currently panics when using Keyberon)
* Need to clean up the wire rats nest, either:
    * Some IDC cable assembly?
    * Hand wired/soldered connections?
    * Mix of the two?
* Need to write a project page

## Calculator

* Parts ordered (e-paper screen(s))
* Dev board built, extension port to-do
* Basic display work done
* Need to do system bring up
    * Neotron bios hello-world done
* Could design a PCB? no rush though, dev board should be suitable
* Could think about case design, maybe with Laura?
* Need to solder switches to keypad
* Think about second (e-paper) display
* Could use LiPo stamp
* Need to update project page

## Laptop

* 9.7" screen ordered
* Probably will have same core as the calculator, should bring that up as a platform first.
* Could use LiPo stamp
* Needs a project page

## Sprocket

* Boards ordered
* Need to get a basic BSP crate set up
* I have some ideas for add-on shields:
    * RS-485 or Differential I2C for long range comms?
    * Battery shield?
    * Wireless shield?
    * "clink" PWM audio card
* Design a lego "shadow box" with Laura?
* Need to add project page

## Fairy Lights project

* Did some research on supercaps
* It seems like supercaps + a buck regulator are going to make each board sort of expensive and large
* Need to do some more research on cables, or even energy harvesting? Solar Panels? Precision charging laser?
