# Neotron bringup steps

> NOTE: Some of these links will be file-local for me, and won't work on the web rendered version of this document. Sorry. I'll try and get a hosted version working at some point.

1. Fill out or stub out each of the [BIOS API](file:///home/james/personal/Neotron-743-BIOS/target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/doc/neotron_common_bios/struct.Api.html) functions.
    1. `api_version_get` - Should be easy
    2. `bios_version_get` - Also easy
    3. `serial_get_info` - Not sure. Could return `None` for all calls, might not be useful though. I could probably fake a UART via defmt for output, but might need something for input. I could probably get a USB or TTL UART going from the HAL examples.
    4. `serial_configure` - I could probably force it to only accept a single configuration, based on whatever serial device I set up. Or it could lie and accept whatever config and just ignore it.
    5. `serial_write` - Output is easy, on defmt or a serial port.
    6. `time_get` - We can lie. Or use some clock or something. The 60Hz thing might be weird to handle. 1 frame is 546.133333 LFCLK ticks. 546 ticks would be an error of 0.024%, which is probably fine for now, or 60.015 FPS.
    7. `video_memory_info_get` - Setting up a framebuffer is probably easy, but the question is what to do with it?
    8. `configuration_get` - Probably okay to stub? Failing to store it is probably fine.
    9. `configuration_set` - Storing it in volatile memory to start with is probably fine.
2. Determine memory layout for BIOS, OS, and apps
    * Probably just chunks of RAM for the OS/apps for now
3. Write some kind of RAM loader for the OS from the BIOS
    * Maybe just a UART thing? Basic IHEX loader or something?
4. Figure out how Neotron actually reads from a keyboard, uses audio, sdcard, etc.
    * Video is actually done here: https://github.com/thejpster/vga-framebuffer-rs

# Share with Tanks

"How I Teach Embedded Systems"

https://twitter.com/AliAlSaibie/status/1359538612501676033
