# Thoughts on the STM32G0 I2C Peripheral Mode

> Using RM0444 - dm00371828, for the STM32G0x1 platform

* Supports Standard Mode, Fast Mode, and Fast Mode Plus
* Has DMA support
* Can do multimaster
* Can do 7/10 bit addressing
* Multiple 7-bit addresses, "2 addresses, 1 with configurable mask"
* Supports optional clock stretching

| Feature           | I2C1  | I2C2  |
| :------           | :--:  | :--:  |
| 7 bit addr        | X     | X     |
| 10 bit addr       | X     | X     |
| 100kbit/s         | X     | X     |
| 400kbit/s         | X     | X     |
| 1Mbit/s           | X     | X     |
| Independent clock | X     |       |
| Wakeup from stop  | X     |       |
| SMBus/PMBus       | X     |       |

## 32.4.4 talks about clocking requirements.

Probably relevant when doing clock configuration.

## 32.4.6 talks about initialization

* You must config + enable I2C peripheral clock
* You enable the I2C by setting PE bit in I2C_CR1 register
* When you disable with PE bit, a "software reset" occurs (see 32.4.7)

* Analog filter is enabled by default, disabled with ANFOFF bit, or use a digital filter with DNF3..0 in the I2C_CR1 register
* Table 164 talks about tradeoffs between analog/digital
    * Analog is available in stop mode w/ addr wakeup, digital isn't
    * Analog is variable with temp, voltage, etc.
    * Digital is programmable
* Don't change filter while I2C enabled
* Table 165 (and preceding text) talks a LOOOOT about timing calculation. This is probably important, but overwhelming
* Don't change the timing while I2C enabled

Figure 287 is a flow chart of initialization steps. Basically:

* Turn off I2C_CR1::PE
* Configure I2C_CR1::ANFOFF and I2C_CR1::DNF
* Configure PRESC, SDADEL, SCLDEL, SCLH, SCLL in I2C_TIMINGR
* Configure I2C_CR1::NOSTRETCH
* Turn on I2C_CR1::PE

## 32.4.7 Talks about software reset

* It has a list of affected bytes
* You need to keep it low for at least 3 APB cycles to do the software reset. They recommend:
    * Write PE 0
    * Read PE
    * Write PE 1

## 32.4.8 Talks about data transfer

There is a one byte buffer for each direction, shifted in/out.

### Receiving

* Data is shifted in
* On full byte:
    * If RXNE=0, then byte is put in I2C_RXDR
    * If RXNE=1, then clock is stretched until RXNE=0

### Transmitting

* Data is shifted out
* On empty byte:
    * If TXE=0, then byte is copied from I2C_TXDR
    * If TXE=1, then clock is stretched until TXE=0

### HW Transfer Management

* I2C has a byte counter, enabled by default in master, disabled in slave
* Controlled through I2C_CR2::SBC bit
* Number of bytes for counter is I2C_CR2::NBYTES byte.
* Also has a RELOAD bit for generating TCR flag when you need to load more than 255 bytes
* You must clear RELOAD on last chunk

When not using RELOAD as a master, you can use AUTOEND to send a stop automatically when transfered. Or you can disable to possibly get a flag/interrupt when you need to START (restart) or STOP w/ software control

Table 166 shows master/slave configurations of SBC, RELOAD, and AUTOEND.

## 32.4.9 talks about slave mode

* You must set at least one address
    * Configured with I2C_OAR1 and I2C_OAR2
    * OA1 is 7 bit by default, set in OA1MODE in I2C_OAR1
    * Enabled by OA1EN in I2C_OAR1 register
    * OA2 has masks for matching multiple wildcard'y addresses
    * Mask logic is odd, I don't get it yet.
    * OA2 is always 7 bit
    * OA2 is enabled by setting OA2EN in O2C_OAR2
* You can enable General Call address by setting GCEN in I2C_CR1
* You can get a flag or interrupt on address match
* Usually the slave uses clock stretching. can be disabled
* If using wildcard addrs, I2C_ISR::ADDCODE can be checked. Also check DIR for direction
* Must clear ADDR flag to release stretch
* If you don't stretch, you'll get all kinds of over/underrun error flags set

Figure 290 has a slave initialization flow chart. Preceeding text has some info about what can be updated when.

Figures 291-296 show the data transfer flow when stretching is enabled or not, and when sending or receiving

## 32.4.10 talks about master mode

Not relevant for now

## 32.4.11 shows timing calc examples

Probably just look at this when writing the clocking code

## 32.4.12-32.4.15 talk about SMBus

Not relevant for now

## 32.4.16 talks about wake from stop

Not relevant for now

## 32.4.17 talks about error conditions

Main errors:

* Bus Error (BERR)
* Arbitration Lost (ARLO)
* Overrun/Underrun Error (OVR)
* Packet Error Checking Error (PECERR)
    * SMBus
* Timeout Error (TIMEOUT)
    * SMBus
* Alert (ALERT)
    * SMBus

## 32.4.18 talks about DMA

* Enable with TXDMAEN/RXDMAEN in the I2C_CR1 register
* Slave mode: You have to set up the DMA before clearing the ADDR register (TX and RX)

## 32.4.19 talks about Debug mode

Probably don't care for now

## 32.5 talks about I2C low power modes

probably don't care for now

## 32.6 talks about interrupts

Super handy table of mnemonics, what sets flags, what interrupts are paired with flags, how to enable, how to clear, etc.

## 32.7 is a listing of all the registers

Yeah.

# Implementation

I have a fork of the g0xx hal, which implements a reasonable amount of i2c master capabilities

I probably want to offer:

* blocking i2c slave (maybe? just for prototyping?)
* interrupt i2c slave
* dma i2c slave

I might want to de-macro the driver a bit


## Initialization steps

* initial settings
* Clear {OA1EN, OA2EN} in I2C_OAR1 and I2C_OAR2
* Configure:
    * OA1[9:0]
    * OA1MODE
    * OA1EN
    * OA2[6:0]
    * OA2MSK[2:0]
    * OA2EN
    * GCEN
* Configure SBC in I2C_CR1
* Enable interrupts and/or DMA in I2C_CR1
    * lol later
* End
